----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 7
TITLE: Simulation of a Trust and Reputation based Mitigation Protocol for a Black Hole Style Attack on VANETs
AUTHORS: Giuseppe Primiero, Agostino Martorana and Jacopo Tagliabue


----------- Overall evaluation -----------
-This paper provides a simulation study of a Black Hole style attack on a VANET (Vehicular ad-hoc Network) in vehicles and roadside unit networks created to enhance transportation systems through vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) communications.
-In the VANET, a reputation is evaluated with each RREPN (Route Reply sending node) over the response table on the source node by a fidelity level. Next hop is chosen within the highest fidelity level and the shortest hop. Under this scheme, this paper evaluates the trust and reputation model on the NetLogo tool experimentally by varying: 1) network topology,  2) network size,  3) message ranking,  4) proportion of discoverers,  5) proportion of attackers and 6) network coverage for attack.

<Relevance to the workshop>
-Since the topic of this paper is related to security for a critical infrastructure, the topic is highly suitable for this workshop.

<Strength>
-The simulation in this paper clarifies impact of realistic attacks by malicious users and the mitigation protocol in VANET which is indispensable for an automatic driving with V2V and V2I communications over an ad hoc network.

<Weakness>
-This paper would be greatly improved if the authors could clarify the distinguishing benefits from the proposed simulation method in comparison with existing methods in a quantitative way, because there are many similar researches in this area.

DONE

-An additional explanation about technical difficulties of this study would also improve the value of the paper.

ADD LIMITATIONS
[INCLUDED PARAGRAPH IN SEC 5.5 --possibly to extend]

-In the related work, not only existing researches on attacks and countermeasures, but also researches on evaluation methods themselves of countermeasures against attacks should be described.


??

- And also, addition of simple relative comparison between Fidelity Table method and other mitigation protocols might be useful to objectively emphasize the importance of the method.


TO DO

<Minor comments>
-NetLogo is a very good agent-based simulation tool with GUI for a trial-and-error purpose, but its computation is relatively slow. So, my suggestion is to use a faster (simpler) execution environment for more comprehensive performance evaluation experiments in the future so that the authors can enrich the experimental data more easily.

[IN FUTURE WORK< ALREADY IN THE CONCLUSIONS]

The current experimental data shown in the graphs seem a little bit sparse.


-There are grammatical mistakes like: "vehicles. and roadside unit..." and spelling mistakes like "unsfae behaviours" and "truth-vale". Please fix them.


DONE

----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 7
TITLE: Simulation of a Trust and Reputation based Mitigation Protocol for a Black Hole Style Attack on VANETs
AUTHORS: Giuseppe Primiero, Agostino Martorana and Jacopo Tagliabue


----------- Overall evaluation -----------
This paper carried out various simulations to evaluate the capability of an existing protocol in mitigating Black Hole type attacks in VANETs. The authors also provided the detailed explanations of the simulation results. interesting. It would be better to compare with the other protocols.
Minior errors:
There are some grammar error, such as
(1)	The present paper simulates a type of attack-- attacks
(2)	Two main kind-  kinds
The authors should carefully check.


DONE

----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 7
TITLE: Simulation of a Trust and Reputation based Mitigation Protocol for a Black Hole Style Attack on VANETs
AUTHORS: Giuseppe Primiero, Agostino Martorana and Jacopo Tagliabue


----------- Overall evaluation -----------
Paper: “Simulation of a Trust and Reputation based Mitigation Protocol for a Black Hole Style Attack on VANETs”

Abstract: Authors state to provide a simulation study of a Black Hole style attack on a VANET (Vehicular ad hoc Network) and illustrate the use of a trust and mitigation based protocol to contain the attack under some initial conditions.

Decision: Weak reject (-1)

Review:
Although the research seems meaningful, the paper itself needs improvement in several aspects before being published.

Sections (except Related work and Conclusions) should be related/linked more smoothly so that transition between them is not so abrupt. Also, Introduction should enumerate all sections of the paper, as well as summarize their content.


DONE

At the end of the Introduction, the authors say they make use of network theory analysis to optimize network and population properties, and contextual conditions to constraint the attack. Furthermore, they sate this will allow them to set attack specific benchmarks.

However, not enough detail is given in the paper: If they found an optimal set up, it should be compared to far more different alternatives to understand how much better it really is, unless there is no difference between them, in which case this soul be stated (for instance, why going from 10% attackers / discoverers to 1 % attackers 90 % discoverers? What happens with in-between cases?).


DONE

Related Work section could be improved by (further) relating the mitigation protocols / notions explain to the one the authors use. Also, since this is the related work section, it shouldn’t focus on general concepts but in alternatives for simulation of mitigation protocols for a specific kind of attack and network. Information given in this section would better suit the previous one (introduction).


CHECK: possibly move some stuff to intorduction and give more details from other papers ()


In section 3, The Attack Scenario, it is not clear if the agents’ categorization is a proposal of the authors or it has been used previously.

DONE

Discovery, Message Parsing and Attack routines seem to be part of the authors’ contribution in this research, so they should be mentioned previously as being part of the simulation they present.

DONE REPHRASED IN INTRODUCTION


All the goals of the research should be clear in the introduction, but some new ones are given at the end of this section (“Our main aim is to investigate whether the trust and reputation protocol presented in [15] is effective in preventing such type of attacks”;

DONE


the paragraph containing this statement gives very useful information of some of the downsides of the work presented in Related Work, and would better suit that section.


OK > DONE

It should be clearly stated if the model presented in section 4 is the one the authors use / adapt.


OK > DONE

In section 5.1, they focus on optimizing network properties (topology and size):
-	However, it is not clear of the reasons why they choose the given values for the experiments (ie. Why 10, 50 and 100 nodes? Why not starting with less nodes? Why no more nodes, why no more fine grain interval between those values?). Since in-between configuration are supposed to probe their findings and confirm the chosen configuration to be the minimal and maximal, this should be stated,


OK< ADDED CLARIFICATION

-	Also, Fig 7 plots Network size and % Infection; where is topology? How does it affect the experiments? Which is the specific topology for minimal and maximal cases?


OK > CLARIFIED

The values given to some variables mentioned in sections 5.2, 5.3, and 5.4 (rankp, network_coverage) are not explained.


OK > DONE

Some figures themselves lack a better explanation.

REVISED EXPLANATIONS

In section 5.2, even if “it is possible to show that rising message ranking has no influence in further reducing the infection in all topologies”, it is interesting to know which is the difference between the topologies (even if rising message has no influence in reducing infection, how different are each of them?). This remains true for section 5.3.

ADDDED PARAGRAPHS WITH DIFFERENCES

In section 5.3, results are told to apply to all topologies, but again is not clear if they are exactly the same in all of them or, if not, how do they differ (they are not, since authors state that total networks are overall the most efficient, but details should be given). This is important because total topologies are unlikely to be used in real networks, so the real use of the mitigation protocol will vary depending on how much better this topology is compared to the others.

ADDED DIFFERENCES

Section 5.5, Summary of Results, should be more specific. For instance, if “90% more efficient in a one-attacker condition”, what happens exactly for more than one attacker? How many attackers were tested? If “total networks are overall the most efficient topology for attack mitigation”, how much more efficient is it compared to the other ones considered? Which were the alternative topologies studied? If “network size is relevant only when considered in absence of the reputation protocol” how relevant is it in that case? Even if the answer to some of these questions can be found in previous sections, it should still be explicitly included in the summary.

OK DONE

Conclusions should also be more specific; ie: “our analysis clearly shows under which initial topological and population conditions is the protocol efficient” should mention the exact conditions.

OK DONE

The paper also contains minor grammatical mistakes and typographical errors which should be addressed.


CHECK

On a side note, and without any relevance for the paper’s admission decision, the lack of results and future work / conclusions details in the abstract makes most of engineering related scientific papers hard and tiresome to read.


Abstract should be self-contained (the same way the paper itself is), thus including a summary of the whole work presented, with information for the aforementioned sections (conclusions and future work included). This way, potential readers can have a quick idea of the whole research and know if the paper is interesting for them to read.


OK< REWRITTEN ABSTRACT


Also, It is great that authors give a link to their GitHub to allow the code to be checked and used (a software license should be added to it, though).

OK
